MCQ,Choices,Correct
"A 45-year-old male presents to the emergency department with chest pain and shortness of breath for the past 2 hours. He describes the pain as crushing, radiating to his left arm, and associated with sweating. The patient is diaphoretic and appears anxious. Vital signs show a blood pressure of 160/90 mmHg, heart rate of 110 bpm, respiratory rate of 24/min, and oxygen saturation of 95% on room air. Physical examination reveals bibasilar crackles on lung auscultation. ECG shows ST-segment elevation in leads II, III, and aVF. Troponin levels are elevated. What is the most likely diagnosis?",a: Pulmonary embolism | b: Aortic dissection | c: Myocardial infarction | d: Pericarditis,c
"A 60-year-old female with a history of hypertension and diabetes presents to her primary care physician for a routine follow-up. She reports occasional palpitations and dizziness. On examination, her blood pressure is 150/90 mmHg, heart rate is irregularly irregular at 120 bpm, and she has bibasilar crackles on lung auscultation. ECG shows absent P waves and irregularly irregular QRS complexes. What is the most likely diagnosis?",a: Atrial fibrillation | b: Ventricular tachycardia | c: Supraventricular tachycardia | d: Atrial flutter,a
"A 55-year-old male smoker presents to the cardiology clinic for a routine check-up. He has a history of hyperlipidemia and family history of premature coronary artery disease. His blood pressure is 140/85 mmHg, heart rate is 75 bpm, and BMI is 30 kg/m^2. Laboratory tests show elevated LDL cholesterol levels. What is the most appropriate next step in managing this patient's cardiovascular risk?",a: Initiate statin therapy | b: Start low-dose aspirin | c: Refer for coronary angiography | d: Advise lifestyle modifications,a
"A 70-year-old female presents to the emergency department with sudden-onset left-sided weakness and slurred speech. She has a history of hypertension and atrial fibrillation for which she takes anticoagulant medication. On examination, she has a facial droop, left hemiparesis, and dysarthria. CT scan of the head shows a hyperdense right middle cerebral artery. What is the most likely diagnosis?",a: Ischemic stroke | b: Hemorrhagic stroke | c: Transient ischemic attack | d: Subarachnoid hemorrhage,a
"A 40-year-old male presents with recurrent episodes of chest pain that occur during exertion and are relieved by rest. He has a sedentary lifestyle and a family history of premature coronary artery disease. On examination, his blood pressure is 130/80 mmHg, heart rate is 70 bpm, and BMI is 28 kg/m^2. ECG shows ST-segment depression during chest pain episodes. What is the most likely diagnosis?",a: Stable angina | b: Unstable angina | c: Prinzmetal angina | d: Acute myocardial infarction,a
